what most powerful blows in boxing is by
far the uppercut many a knockout have
come from the uppercut and there's a
very good reason why this is so
tactically superior as well as even with
power one is that the uppercut when it
comes through is under your opponent's
vision typically if they're focusing
High Line coming up under here has hits
kind of a blind spot in between
especially in when you're in close in
the close-quarters fighting you come in
like this it comes up your opponent's
center line right underneath their
vision like they don't even see it
coming the other thing is that it does
take advantage of the center line the
center line of your body is a really
hard place for most people to defend
against they don't really defend their
centreline very very well and it's easy
to take advantage I especially when
you're in a real street fight your
adrenalized the the hands tend to not
focus on coming in the inside defend to
go to the outside and focus more on
striking so the center line is usually
open on your attacker the other thing is
that in the upper cut the primary target
there is the chin so when you come up
the chin that is there that can be a
knockout blow what ends up happening is
it tends to throw the head back hits the
nerves in the back of the spine here
really this cinches down on them and it
can be an instant knockout blow and very
very powerful now the problem is though
with the upper cut it's the number one
if you're not in a boxing ring you don't
have gloves on you have a much smaller
striking surface so if I'm coming up now
if I have big gloves on it gives me a
lot more fudge room in here to be able
to strike him actually hit him in the
chin but if I only have my fist I'm
coming up on under well now I've only
got this little two-inch square versus
my knuckles that I'm trying to reach
here and in a fight people aren't
staying stationary they're moving around
there naturally moving during the fight
so as I try to come up with an uppercut
most likely my hand is going to glance
off here I'm not going to really do i'm
not going to get that head snap that i'm
really trying to accomplish there the
other thing is that when you're trying
to punch with an uppercut you end up the
way that the angle is is that your wrist
is already starting to bend toward you
so as I come in even if i make i finnaly
vynn it my target what ends up happening
is it really folds my wrist and you
don't want to take out your primary
striking tool if you're doing
this hand right here you want to be able
to be able to use this without having a
broken wrist not be able to strike with
it so there's a better alternative to
the uppercut that uses the same benefits
here and that's to use your palm heel
with the uppercut now here's why it's so
powerful that all it has the same
benefits here as coming in the center
line okay so with the palm heel
basically you have the same motion but
you're striking with right here the palm
of your hand the heel right here which
is right located right just above your
wrists so as I come up and set a
punching and to come up I'm going to
strike right up a center line with my
palm heel now what this does is again
Gosney underneath this vision takes
advantage of the center line is very
very powerful now because I'm putting my
body up into a this basically a push a
shove which is very very powerful you
get your really get your your body
behind this instead of having to come
under with the uppercut here you can
come under you can push now you have
better body function here puts more
power behind it I have a larger striking
service than just my knuckles so I have
a better chance of hitting my target as
well the other thing here though is that
it gives me a lot more options for
attacking in the close quarters combat
so as I come through here even if I miss
I have my whole hand that can go around
his face it allows me to come in grab
the back of his head if I want to if I
come up here even if I don't get that
knockout I get that really good shove
that I can shove the back of his head
back and really take advantage of that
snap that happens there plus i can reach
my fingers down Claude the eyes down I
can just basically grip into his face
here I can really do a lot of a lot of
damage there so it gives me money more
options than just coming up with an
actual punch that way it allows me to
come in and grab the back of his head if
I come off this side I'm grab back of
his head get into a clinch here bring in
with my knee it gives you a lot more
options there so instead of focusing on
the upper cut and these boxing moves or
if you are a boxer and you're looking
for a more applicable a better
application of the uppercut focus
instead on the palm heel practices
against the dummy practices against your
training partner and you'll see that it
allows you the same benefits as the
uppercut but it's much more powerful and
it gives you a
a lot better options in close quarters
combat